# Use generic views: Less code is better

The `detail()` (from `Tutorial 3 </intro/tutorial03>`) and `results()` views are very short -- and, as mentioned above, redundant. The `index()` view, which displays a list of polls, is similar.

These views represent a common case of basic web development: getting data from the database according to a parameter passed in the URL, loading a template and returning the rendered template. Because this is so common, Django provides a shortcut, called the "generic views" system.

Generic views abstract common patterns to the point where you don't even need to write Python code to write an app.

Let's convert our poll app to use the generic views system, so we can delete a bunch of our own code. We'll have to take a few steps to make the conversion. We will:

1. Convert the URLconf.
2. Delete some of the old, unneeded views.
3. Introduce new views based on Django's generic views.

Read on for details.

> Why the code-shuffle?

Generally, when writing a Django app, you'll evaluate whether generic views are a good fit for your problem, and you'll use them from the beginning, rather than refactoring your code halfway through. But this tutorial intentionally has focused on writing the views "the hard way" until now, to focus on core concepts.

You should know basic math before you start using a calculator.

### Amend URLconf

First, open the `polls/urls.py` URLconf and change it like so:

```python
from django.urls import path

from . import views

app_name = "polls"
urlpatterns = [
    path("", views.IndexView.as_view(), name="index"),
    path("<int:pk>/", views.DetailView.as_view(), name="detail"),
    path("<int:pk>/results/", views.ResultsView.as_view(), name="results"),
    path("<int:question_id>/vote/", views.vote, name="vote"),
]
```

Note that the name of the matched pattern in the path strings of the second and third patterns has changed from `<question_id>` to `<pk>`.

### Amend views

Next, we're going to remove our old `index`, `detail`, and `results` views and use Django's generic views instead. To do so, open the `polls/views.py` file and change it like so:

```python
from django.http import HttpResponseRedirect
from django.shortcuts import get_object_or_404, render
from django.urls import reverse
from django.views import generic

from .models import Choice, Question


class IndexView(generic.ListView):
    template_name = "polls/index.html"
    context_object_name = "latest_question_list"

    def get_queryset(self):
        """Return the last five published questions."""
        return Question.objects.order_by("-pub_date")[:5]


class DetailView(generic.DetailView):
    model = Question
    template_name = "polls/detail.html"


class ResultsView(generic.DetailView):
    model = Question
    template_name = "polls/results.html"


def vote(request, question_id):
    ...  # same as above, no changes needed.
```

We're using two generic views here: `~django.views.generic.list.ListView` and `~django.views.generic.detail.DetailView`. Respectively, those two views abstract the concepts of "display a list of objects" and "display a detail page for a particular type of object."

- Each generic view needs to know what model it will be acting upon. This is provided using the `model` attribute.
- The `~django.views.generic.detail.DetailView` generic view expects the primary key value captured from the URL to be called `"pk"`, so we've changed `question_id` to `pk` for the generic views.

By default, the `~django.views.generic.detail.DetailView` generic view uses a template called `<app name>/<model name>_detail.html`. In our case, it would use the template `"polls/question_detail.html"`. The `template_name` attribute is used to tell Django to use a specific template name instead of the autogenerated default template name. We also specify the `template_name` for the `results` list view --this ensures that the results view and the detail view have a different appearance when rendered, even though they're both a `~django.views.generic.detail.DetailView` behind the scenes.

Similarly, the `~django.views.generic.list.ListView` generic view uses a default template called `<app name>/<model name>_list.html`; we use `template_name` to tell `~django.views.generic.list.ListView` to use our existing `"polls/index.html"` template.

In previous parts of the tutorial, the templates have been provided with a context that contains the `question` and `latest_question_list` context variables. For `DetailView` the `question` variable is provided automatically -- since we're using a Django model (`Question`), Django is able to determine an appropriate name for the context variable. However, for ListView, the automatically generated context variable is `question_list`. To override this we provide the `context_object_name` attribute, specifying that we want to use `latest_question_list` instead. As an alternative approach, you could change your templates to match the new default context variables -- but it's a lot easier to tell Django to use the variable you want.

Run the server, and use your new polling app based on generic views.

For full details on generic views, see the `generic views documentation
</topics/class-based-views/index>`.

When you're comfortable with forms and generic views, read `part 5 of this
tutorial</intro/tutorial05>` to learn about testing our polls app.
