# Exporting a Convenient Public API with pub use

The structure of your public API is a major consideration when publishing a
crate. People who use your crate are less familiar with the structure than you
are and might have difficulty finding the pieces they want to use if your crate
has a large module hierarchy.

In Chapter 7, we covered how to make items public using the `pub` keyword, and
how to bring items into a scope with the `use` keyword. However, the structure
that makes sense to you while you’re developing a crate might not be very
convenient for your users. You might want to organize your structs in a
hierarchy containing multiple levels, but then people who want to use a type
you’ve defined deep in the hierarchy might have trouble finding out that type
exists. They might also be annoyed at having to enter `use`
`my_crate::`some_module`::`another_module`::`UsefulType`;` rather than `use`
`my_crate::`UsefulType`;`.

The good news is that if the structure _isn’t_ convenient for others to use
from another library, you don’t have to rearrange your internal organization:
instead, you can re-export items to make a public structure that’s different
from your private structure by using `pub use`. _Re-exporting_ takes a public
item in one location and makes it public in another location, as if it were
defined in the other location instead.

For example, say we made a library named `art` for modeling artistic concepts.
Within this library are two modules: a `kinds` module containing two enums
named `PrimaryColor` and `SecondaryColor` and a `utils` module containing a
function named `mix`, as shown in Listing 14-3.

Filename: `src/lib.rs`

```rust
//! # Art
//!
//! A library for modeling artistic concepts.

pub mod kinds {
    /// The primary colors according to the RYB color model.
    pub enum PrimaryColor {
        Red,
        Yellow,
        Blue,
    }

    /// The secondary colors according to the RYB color model.
    pub enum SecondaryColor {
        Orange,
        Green,
        Purple,
    }
}

pub mod utils {
    use crate::kinds::*;

    /// Combines two primary colors in equal amounts to create
    /// a secondary color.
    pub fn mix(
        c1: PrimaryColor,
        c2: PrimaryColor,
    ) -> SecondaryColor {
        --snip--
    }
}
```

Listing 14-3: An `art` library with items organized into `kinds` and `utils`
modules

Figure 14-3 shows what the front page of the documentation for this crate
generated by `cargo doc` would look like.

Figure 14-3: Front page of the documentation for `art` that lists the `kinds`
and `utils` modules

Note that the `PrimaryColor` and `SecondaryColor` types aren’t listed on the
front page, nor is the `mix` function. We have to click `kinds` and `utils` to
see them.

Another crate that depends on this library would need `use` statements that
bring the items from `art` into scope, specifying the module structure that’s
currently defined. Listing 14-4 shows an example of a crate that uses the
`PrimaryColor` and `mix` items from the `art` crate.

Filename: `src/main.rs`

```rust
use art::kinds::PrimaryColor;
use art::utils::mix;

fn main() {
    let red = PrimaryColor::Red;
    let yellow = PrimaryColor::Yellow;
    mix(red, yellow);
}
```

Listing 14-4: A crate using the `art` crate’s items with its internal structure
exported

The author of the code in Listing 14-4, which uses the `art` crate, had to
figure out that `PrimaryColor` is in the `kinds` module and `mix` is in the
`utils` module. The module structure of the `art` crate is more relevant to
developers working on the `art` crate than to those using it. The internal
structure doesn’t contain any useful information for someone trying to
understand how to use the `art` crate, but rather causes confusion because
developers who use it have to figure out where to look, and must specify the
module names in the `use` statements.

To remove the internal organization from the public API, we can modify the
`art` crate code in Listing 14-3 to add `pub use` statements to re-export the
items at the top level, as shown in Listing 14-5.

Filename: `src/lib.rs`

```rust
//! # Art
//!
//! A library for modeling artistic concepts.

pub use self::kinds::PrimaryColor;
pub use self::kinds::SecondaryColor;
pub use self::utils::mix;

pub mod kinds {
    --snip--
}

pub mod utils {
    --snip--
}
```

Listing 14-5: Adding `pub use` statements to re-export items

The API documentation that `cargo doc` generates for this crate will now list
and link re-exports on the front page, as shown in Figure 14-4, making the
`PrimaryColor` and `SecondaryColor` types and the `mix` function easier to find.

Figure 14-4: The front page of the documentation for `art` that lists the
re-exports

The `art` crate users can still see and use the internal structure from Listing
14-3 as demonstrated in Listing 14-4, or they can use the more convenient
structure in Listing 14-5, as shown in Listing 14-6.

Filename: `src/main.rs`

```rust
use art::mix;
use art::PrimaryColor;

fn main() {
    --snip--
}
```

Listing 14-6: A program using the re-exported items from the `art` crate

In cases where there are many nested modules, re-exporting the types at the top
level with `pub use` can make a significant difference in the experience of
people who use the crate. Another common use of `pub use` is to re-export
definitions of a dependency in the current crate to make that crate’s
definitions part of your crate’s public API.

Creating a useful public API structure is more of an art than a science, and
you can iterate to find the API that works best for your users. Choosing `pub
use` gives you flexibility in how you structure your crate internally and
decouples that internal structure from what you present to your users. Look at
some of the code of crates you’ve installed to see if their internal structure
differs from their public API.
