# Subplots Spacings and Margins

## Introduction

In this lab, we will learn how to adjust the spacing of margins and subplots using `pyplot.subplots_adjust` in Python Matplotlib. This can be useful to improve the layout and aesthetics of our plots.

## Steps

### Step 1: Import Required Libraries

First, we need to import the required libraries. For this tutorial, we will be using `matplotlib.pyplot` and `numpy`. Run the following code to import these libraries:

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
```

### Step 2: Create Plots

Next, let's create two plots using `imshow` and random arrays generated by `numpy.random`. We will also add a color bar to the plots. Run the following code:

```python
# Fixing random state for reproducibility
np.random.seed(19680801)

plt.subplot(211)
plt.imshow(np.random.random((100, 100)))
plt.subplot(212)
plt.imshow(np.random.random((100, 100)))

cax = plt.axes([0.85, 0.1, 0.075, 0.8])
plt.colorbar(cax=cax)

plt.show()
```

### Step 3: Adjust Subplot Spacings and Margins

Now, let's adjust the subplot spacings and margins using `pyplot.subplots_adjust`. We can specify the values for the bottom, right, top, and left margins as fractions of the figure width and height. Run the following code:

```python
plt.subplots_adjust(bottom=0.1, right=0.8, top=0.9)
```

### Step 4: Adjust Colorbar Position

We can also adjust the position of the color bar using `plt.axes`. This function takes a list of `[left, bottom, width, height]` values as arguments to specify the position and size of the axes. Run the following code:

```python
cax = plt.axes([0.85, 0.1, 0.075, 0.8])
plt.colorbar(cax=cax)
```

### Step 5: Display the Plot

Finally, let's display the plot using `plt.show()`. Run the following code:

```python
plt.show()
```

## Summary

In this lab, we learned how to adjust the spacing of margins and subplots using `pyplot.subplots_adjust` in Python Matplotlib. We also learned how to adjust the position of the color bar using `plt.axes`. These techniques can be useful to improve the layout and aesthetics of our plots.
