# Concatenation with the + Operator or the format! Macro

Often, you’ll want to combine two existing strings. One way to do so is to use
the `+` operator, as shown in Listing 8-18.

```rust
let s1 = String::from("Hello, ");
let s2 = String::from("world!");
let s3 = s1 + &s2; // note s1 has been moved here and can no longer be used
```

Listing 8-18: Using the `+` operator to combine two `String` values into a new
`String` value

The string `s3` will contain `Hello, world!`. The reason `s1` is no longer
valid after the addition, and the reason we used a reference to `s2`, has to do
with the signature of the method that’s called when we use the `+` operator.
The `+` operator uses the `add` method, whose signature looks something like
this:

```rust
fn add(self, s: &str) -> String {
```

In the standard library, you’ll see `add` defined using generics and associated
types. Here, we’ve substituted in concrete types, which is what happens when we
call this method with `String` values. We’ll discuss generics in Chapter 10.
This signature gives us the clues we need in order to understand the tricky
bits of the `+` operator.

First, `s2` has an `&`, meaning that we’re adding a _reference_ of the second
string to the first string. This is because of the `s` parameter in the `add`
function: we can only add a `&str` to a `String`; we can’t add two `String`
values together. But wait—the type of `&s2` is `&String`, not `&str`, as
specified in the second parameter to `add`. So why does Listing 8-18 compile?

The reason we’re able to use `&s2` in the call to `add` is that the compiler
can _coerce_ the `&String` argument into a `&str`. When we call the `add`
method, Rust uses a _deref coercion_, which here turns `&s2` into `&s2[..]`.
We’ll discuss deref coercion in more depth in Chapter 15. Because `add` does
not take ownership of the `s` parameter, `s2` will still be a valid `String`
after this operation.

Second, we can see in the signature that `add` takes ownership of `self`
because `self` does _not_ have an `&`. This means `s1` in Listing 8-18 will be
moved into the `add` call and will no longer be valid after that. So, although
`let s3 = s1 + &s2;` looks like it will copy both strings and create a new one,
this statement actually takes ownership of `s1`, appends a copy of the contents
of `s2`, and then returns ownership of the result. In other words, it looks
like it’s making a lot of copies, but it isn’t; the implementation is more
efficient than copying.

If we need to concatenate multiple strings, the behavior of the `+` operator
gets unwieldy:

```rust
let s1 = String::from("tic");
let s2 = String::from("tac");
let s3 = String::from("toe");

let s = s1 + "-" + &s2 + "-" + &s3;
```

At this point, `s` will be `tic-tac-toe`. With all of the `+` and `"`
characters, it’s difficult to see what’s going on. For combining strings in
more complicated ways, we can instead use the `format!` macro:

```rust
let s1 = String::from("tic");
let s2 = String::from("tac");
let s3 = String::from("toe");

let s = format!("{s1}-{s2}-{s3}");
```

This code also sets `s` to `tic-tac-toe`. The `format!` macro works like
`println!`, but instead of printing the output to the screen, it returns a
`String` with the contents. The version of the code using `format!` is much
easier to read, and the code generated by the `format!` macro uses references
so that this call doesn’t take ownership of any of its parameters.
