# So far we have explored using single instances of containers running on a single host, much like a developer might do when working on a single service application or like an IT adminstrator might do on a test rig. Production applications are usually much more complex and this single server model will not work to coordinate 10s or 100s of containers and the network connections amongst them, not to mention the need to ensure availability and the ability to scale.

For real applications IT users and app teams need more sophisticated tools. Docker supplies two such tools: **_Docker Compose_** and **_Docker Swarm Mode_**. The two tools have some similarities but some important differences:

- **Compose** is used to control multiple containers on a single system. Much like the _Dockerfile_ we looked at to build an image, there is a text file that describes the application: which images to use, how many instances, the network connections, etc. But _Compose_ only runs on a single system so while it is useful, we are going to skip _Compose_<sup id="a1">[1](#fn-compose)</sup> and go straight to _Docker Swarm Mode_.
- **Swarm Mode** tells Docker that you will be running many Docker engines and you want to coordinate operations across all of them. Swarm mode combines the ability to not only define the application architecture, like Compose, but to define and maintain high availability levels, scaling, load balancing, and more. With all this functionality, _Swarm mode_ is used more often in production environments than its more simplistic cousin, Compose.
