# Adding a background-image

Next, we'll create a subdirectory for images. Create an `images` subdirectory in the `polls/static/polls/` directory. Inside this directory, add any image file that you'd like to use as a background. For the purposes of this tutorial, we're using a file named `background.png`, which will have the full path `polls/static/polls/images/background.png`.

Then, add a reference to your image in your stylesheet (`polls/static/polls/style.css`):

```css
body {
  background: white url("images/background.png") no-repeat;
}
```

Reload `http://localhost:8000/polls/` and you should see the background loaded in the top left of the screen.

> The `{% static %}` template tag is not available for use in static files which aren't generated by Django, like your stylesheet. You should always use **relative paths** to link your static files between each other, because then you can change `STATIC_URL` (used by the `static` template tag to generate its URLs) without having to modify a bunch of paths in your static files as well.

These are the **basics**. For more details on settings and other bits included with the framework see `the static files howto </howto/static-files/index>` and `the staticfiles reference </ref/contrib/staticfiles>`. `Deploying
static files </howto/static-files/deployment>` discusses how to use static files on a real server.

When you're comfortable with the static files, read `part 7 of this
tutorial </intro/tutorial07>` to learn how to customize Django's automatically-generated admin site.
