# Creating a Project with Cargo

Let’s create a new project using Cargo and look at how it differs from our
original “Hello, world!” project. Navigate back to your `project` directory
(or wherever you decided to store your code). Then, on any operating system,
run the following:

```bash
cargo new hello_cargo
cd hello_cargo
```

The first command creates a new directory and project called _hello_cargo_.
We’ve named our project _hello_cargo_, and Cargo creates its files in a
directory of the same name.

Go into the `hello_cargo` directory and list the files. You’ll see that Cargo
has generated two files and one directory for us: a `Cargo.toml` file and a
`src` directory with a `main.rs` file inside.

It has also initialized a new Git repository along with a _.gitignore_ file.
Git files won’t be generated if you run `cargo new` within an existing Git
repository; you can override this behavior by using `cargo new --vcs=git`.

> Note: Git is a common version control system. You can change `cargo new` to
> use a different version control system or no version control system by using
> the `--vcs` flag. Run `cargo new --help` to see the available options.

Open `Cargo.toml` in your text editor of choice. It should look similar to the
code in Listing 1-2.

Filename: `Cargo.toml`

```toml
[package]
name = "hello_cargo"
version = "0.1.0"
edition = "2021"

[dependencies]
```

Listing 1-2: Contents of `Cargo.toml` generated by `cargo new`

This file is in the _TOML_ (_Tom’s Obvious, Minimal Language_) format, which is
Cargo’s configuration format.

The first line, `[package]`, is a section heading that indicates that the
following statements are configuring a package. As we add more information to
this file, we’ll add other sections.

The next three lines set the configuration information Cargo needs to compile
your program: the name, the version, and the edition of Rust to use. We’ll talk
about the `edition` key in Appendix E.

The last line, `[dependencies]`, is the start of a section for you to list any
of your project’s dependencies. In Rust, packages of code are referred to as
_crates_. We won’t need any other crates for this project, but we will in the
first project in Chapter 2, so we’ll use this dependencies section then.

Now open `src/main.rs` and take a look:

Filename: `src/main.rs`

```rust
fn main() {
    println!("Hello, world!");
}
```

Cargo has generated a “Hello, world!” program for you, just like the one we
wrote in Listing 1-1! So far, the differences between our project and the
project Cargo generated are that Cargo placed the code in the `src` directory
and we have a `Cargo.toml` configuration file in the top directory.

Cargo expects your source files to live inside the `src` directory. The
top-level project directory is just for README files, license information,
configuration files, and anything else not related to your code. Using Cargo
helps you organize your projects. There’s a place for everything, and
everything is in its place.

If you started a project that doesn’t use Cargo, as we did with the “Hello,
world!” project, you can convert it to a project that does use Cargo. Move the
project code into the `src` directory and create an appropriate `Cargo.toml`
file.
